---
layout: post
title: SW Reflection
author: Taryn England
categories: misc
---

I think that in order to carry out any form of social change within a community one needs to be able to communicate their ideas as well as being able to be open minded towards what others have to say. I think working on this website really helped to reinforce that skill and talent for me. I know that I personally struggle with my communication at times when I don't feel like I have enough time to think before needing to speak. Yet this project helped me learn that sometimes others aren't expecting you to have fully formed and articulate response back to everything.

On the social need side of things, I feel as though the community partners were very friendly and welcoming themselves which made me want to interact with them and be more accomdating to their needs instead of trying to just do the minimal and then calling it good. I think they were really great and being people that would bring about positive energy which could lead to changes being made in a community. I think with them being really good to work with made the team more passionate about trying to get this project started for them so they could eventually move to something more manageable moving forward.

I have come to realize that good communication is really needed in the world and this project has helped me to realize that being able to talk to people is going to be a good skill. I have been able to communicate my ideas but sometimes they are not able to translate to someone who doesn't think like me and this project highlighted that while I may know what I am trying to say there are times I may need to think of things from a different angle to better relay what I am trying to say. As for any challenges I may have towards class learning from this experience I do not think there is anything I will challenge other then the pressure put on people/students with presentations. I didn't feel all that nervus going and talking to clients and presenting them our ideas and progress as opposed to being in class where I get told that I am being graded on doing the same thing. I think it is very much a personal road block somewhere, but the idea that I am being judged for my words or work like in class makes the outcome worse even if the people I am talking to in the community think that I am dumb or ignorant if I also have mess ups with them.

I think working on this project has given me the starting point to figure out what  I can and can not do when dealing with people. I know that if I am given good instructions and a guiding goal I will be able to make progress towards the goal and not feel like I am lost in the process. Without clear goals or guidence on what is expected of me there is room for me get lost in what it is I am suppose to do and the resulting outcome shows that there might not have been clear ideas that were being communicated.
